---
layout: post
title: Why software is so hard?
date: 2020-09-20
categories: software software-engeneering programming
author: Georg
---

Software project are late, expensive and hard to estimate. This is no secret.
But why is this industry so successful compared to other engineering
disciplines. So why is software entering every aspect of life?

**Moving important decisions** to the end of the development life cycle is one
of the key points of success. Electronic gives some freedom in the design of
control loops. With software it is possible to move it further to the right and
nowadays even customers can change the drive characteristics of modern cars.

So one common success story of electrical and software engineering is to move
the decision what to do further to the right of the development cycle. This is
in my opinion a crucial success factor, which also allowed to build general
purpose hardware.

## The **what**

Now everyone is building general purpose hardware and the software is going to
fix it. No problem at all, at least in theory. However the questions "What to
do?" is not answered in many product development projects. Agile processes try
to solve this by shortening the feedback loop.

Every major company adapts agile methods, so it should improve in the next years
or? In theory yes but the agile process gets tailored to the company and now
they have an agile waterfall ;-). Not a single responsibility or decision get's
transferred to the team and the feedback loop is removed entirely from the
process. The only difference is a stand-up in the morning and a two week
planning cycle. So there will be major delays in software projects. This will
take the industry a while to figure out.

*Disclaimer:* I only have insight in two companies, so far and in one of them
there was a pretty good understanding of customer needs and an agile mindset,
however agility wasn't a thing at all. So this posts reflects my personal
opinion and is not based on broad experience or research.
