---
layout: post
title: Round based role playing game
date: 2023-3-13
categories: software software-engeneering programming
author: Georg
---

I started a side project a view month ago, which turned out to grow into a nice
game in which I got insights into various topics. In this post I like to share
this with all of you.

## The start of the side project

I wanted to learn more about clojure and web development because I see how easy
it has become to create a simple user interface within a web browser.  The most
astonishing thing is that updates and installation are super easy from an users
point of view.

This started to grow in a small game, which was inspired by nethack, however has
it's unique gameplay elements. The current state of the game is far from
finished.

I like to sketch out my learning journey in a series of blog posts. Hope you
enjoy this journey. Here is a small outline.

## Architecture

Develop your core logic independent from technology. This allows you to deploy
your code into unplanned ways. In my case I decided to deploy this game to
github pages, which can only serve static pages.

## Testing

Surprise, surprise this is the most important thing. Without this testing
solution I would never come as far as in this project. It seems as a lot of
overhead, however it really allowed myself restructuring of my solution.

## Continuous deployment

Keep it simple. I use a set of bash scripts instead of a full blown CI solution
and it works fine for the moment. In case a need to scale it is still pretty
simple to extend my current solution.

I even abandon a working Jenkins Pipeline because the simpler solution was much
more stable and it simplified my work flow.

